[MUSIC]
All right so if we did all this,
we should, now that we have our models,
we have our controllers,
we have our routes plugged up,
we should be able to start this and
start doing some CRUD on it.
So, let's check it out.
So, in order to check this out, first
thing we need to do is make sure we have
Mongo running, so I'm gonna type mongod,
make sure that's running.
The server won't start without it.
If you try to start the server without
the database running, it'll crash.
So make sure that's running.
And then another, I'm just gonna
run npm start to start ours.
Looks like my path is wrong.
Is it up one more?
API, it's util, not utils, sorry.
Cool, so there we go.
So our servers on, then in another one,
I'm gonna make a request to it.
So, let's do a get request,
let's do a post request to local host,
of first 3,000/api/user.
So, let's create a new user.
And, as we know right now,
user only has user name.
So, let' say right now username=person.
Looks like we have an error, hold on.
Where.
Well, no error.
I don't see any logs.
Let's see, let me start that down.
Start it up.
>> There's typos in local host.
>> The what?
>> There's a typo in the local host.
>> There's a typo.
Okay.
Typo's get me every time man, every time.
There it is.
Localhost.
Cool, there we go.
Created a person.
Totally worked.
If I wanted to create a category,
and category has a name.
And it equals cats.
It's categories, pluralized right.
It'll create cats category.
Now if I wanted to get it,
it should be as simple as Get local
host 3000/api/users.
Give me all the users.
There we go.
I've got a lot of users because
I added more on the data base.
So, don't worry about all
the extra users here.
It gave me all the users.
Cool.
So, you might know it'll be kinda hard
to do CRUD with the posts model and
that's because all of the stuff that's,
why?
I don't know how this thing keeps
getting here, but it's not being right.
I need to fix that.
So yeah,
it be kind of hard to do this here.
While I guess we could because non of
these are required so I guess we could.
Although this should be required author.
So let's do that, let's make a post.
So what will do is let's grab
a user's ID We'll grab that.
And then what we'll do is,
we'll say, post to api/posts and
author= that,
title= learn node 3 and
text= bah, blah,
blah, blah, blah.
Boom.
We created a new blog post.
See, it belongs to this author here.
All right, and
now if we did our calculations correct,
when I do a get request for
this blog post, what I would see back,
I wouldn't see this author billed hear,
I'd see the author object.
So, let's check that out.
So now, if I do a get request with
this post ID, I expect there to
be an object on the author field
with the author's object on it.
The user name and stuff,
so lets check that out.
So, now if I get logo host
3,000/api/post/thatid,
there we go, there's the author property,
it populated it,
that's what population does.
It took that ID that was,
that it is stored in a database.
In the database, the post looks like this,
the author properties thats an ID
of an author, but
when we call it turns it into this.
It gives us that authors object,
alright so
that is what population does, and
if we had categories in there it would do
the same thing with categories
each on in an array.
Is that starting to make sense now?
I know I've talked about it a lot, but
this is the first time
I've actually seen it.
So, now we're able to do CRUD
on all our routes and yeah.
>> Stupid question,
you may have covered it.
The underscore, underscore v that's added
to all of those, where's that coming from?
>> That's coming from Mongo.
Okay, that's something Mongoose
uses internally to determine-
>> I haven't looked into it.
Maybe the document version.
Yeah, it's not important, yeah,
yeah, it's not important.
Well, I guess if it is important if
you ever wanted to make an underscore,
underscore vproperty on your document,
then you'd have a problem.
So, If that's something you really
wanted then you probably can't have it.
Any questions on that stuff, so we all
should be able to do it correct now.
And if you were having problems creating
author, for some reason this theme,
I even put it here in the comments
array of ideas from the user,
that should not be in the comments
I don't even know why I did that
this should not be an array as an author.
It should be just one author.
Actually, I know why I did it
cuz I was gonna have it so
where many authors can write
the blog posts at the same time.
That's why I did it, but
we're not doing it, so.
I was thinking way ahead.
Like, I was writing a solution for
like a step 20 on step 10.